---
title: Tailoring - Configuration Management
source_url: practice.mgmt.project_process_tailoring.base/guidances/guidelines/tailoring_configuration_management_34783C81.html
type: Guideline
uma_name: tailoring_configuration_management
page_guid: _YxYU8E5hEd-TbrfwCHSPcA
keywords:
- configuration
- management
- tailoring
related:
  tasks:
  - tailor-the-process-1
---


 This guideline describes key considerations when tailoring the Configuration Management process area.
---

Relationships

Related Elements|
  * [Tailor the Process](../../tasks/tailor-the-process-1.md)
---|---

Main Description

The following are typical activities and key considerations when tailoring the Configuration Management process area.  Describe conventions for naming and versioning project and product work products \(corporate conventions you may need to comply with\).  Adopt a standard product directory structure for putting artifacts under version control. Add components specific to your project. \(Ideally a standard structure is available as as an enterprise asset or example.\)  Analyze issues involved in setting up the CM environment, such as:
• anticipated size of product data
• distribution of the product team
• physical location of servers and client machines  You should adopt a standard template for your project's CM system that establishes appropriate streams, roles and responsibilities. \(Ideally a standard template is available as as an enterprise asset or example.\) The template for your CM system should include an approach for managing change requests, including enhancements and defects generated by the team and external stakeholders.  Be aware and comply with policies for project media storage and release.  Document how software developed by vendors and subcontractors is incorporated into version control.
---
